---
title: Releasing IOS 17
date: 2023-09-16 00:00:00 +0000
layout: post
categories: [tasks]
tags: [apple, guide]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
​
A yearly tradition which continues with our latest version 3.3 on the App Stores. We love what we do and as a byproduct of that we adopt early iOS, watchOS and macOS features on the very first day they are available to you! This update is packed with the following:
​
- New Apple Watch app
- Interactive Widgets
- StandBy mode
- App Shortcuts
- Focus Filters
- Scheduled tasks
​
## Tasks for the Apple Watch 
([Learn More about Watch App](https://blogs.thetasks.app/posts/watchOS-10))

This is a release I am incredibly proud of. We made sure we do it right by making what we think is one of the most independent fully functional app on the Apple Watch. Here is a list of the actions you can perform on the Watch:
​
- Sign in with Apple so you can sync and fetch all your projects*
- Create, edit, reorder and delete projects as well as their tags, statuses(columns), priorities and more.
- Create, edit delete tasks.
- View scheduled tasks.
- Filter tasks by tags, priorities, task types or even collaborators.
​
*Only projects synced with Tasks Cloud are accessible on the Watch.

---
​
> All project created on the Watch sync with Tasks Cloud for a reliable experience.

## Interactive Widgets
​
Widgets for Tasks launched on Day 1 of iOS 14. Over the years we received a ton of feedback and we are glad to have addressed them and go even beyond to improve our widgets. With iOS 17 widgets can now be interacted with and that allows tasks to be checked off right from your Home Screen or even Lock Screen! Here is a quick glance at our new widgets in action!

​
## StandBy
​
Apple introduced a new mode called StandBy, which gets activated when your iPhone is charging and is placed horizontally(ideally charging via a magsafe stand). I personally keep my phone in this manner when I am working so now you get interactive widgets while your device is on StandBy.
​
​
## App Shortcuts
​
You'll love Siri Shortcuts (well maybe not you, but you should). So now we've improved our Shortcuts to make their more available and easier to consume. You'll now see popular shortcuts from Spotlight when you search for Tasks and can even program the new Action Button introduced on the latest iPhone Pro models to direct to any of our available App Shortcut.
​
I've met a user who showed me how they use Siri Shortcuts to remind them of their `Shopping List` project with tasks marked with the tag `#target` whenever they reach their Target store! Let me share how that shortcut would look like to you!
​
## Focus Filters
​
You're at work, your device is on Focus mode `Work`. Why should you see your personal projects? With Focus Filters, you can choose which projects you want to be visible on your Focus modes. Let us walk you through the setup:
​
- Go to your `Settings` app
- Tap on `Focus`
- Select an existing Focus mode or create a new one
- You scroll down on that screen and you'll see `Focus Filters` with an option `+ Add Filter`
- Select `Tasks` from the options presented and select the projects you want to include in this Focus Filter.
- Now whenever you turn on that Focus Filter, you'll see those items that are related to that project. By items I mean Project, Filters and Smart Lists.
​
## Scheduled Tasks
​
I know, I know. We should had this feature from the very start, however it all came together recently. This is the only screen that shows tasks ordered by dates. We are working on enriching this performance by a whole lot. This is our first version and are already working on huge improvement to this. Better late than never, right?
​

## Fin.
​
Alongside this, we've improved our sync and collaboration experience.
​
What do we have prepared for next? Templates. We believe this will help users setup their projects with ease and help a ton with better structuring of projects!
​
We thank you for your tremondous support and are excited for our next updates. Stay productive and take care!